["Les Feuilles Mortes"
by Juliette Gréco playing]
♪
[Opening theme music plays]
[Birds chirping]
♪
Hello?
Is anybody home?
[Speaks French]
Philippe Saint-Andre,
is he in?
Do you speak English?
Parlez anglais?
[Speaking French]
[Gun safety clicks]
Quite the pepper gun
you got there, Madame.
Philippe...
Where is he?
[Door slams]
Patrice: I would
consider that one
of Audrey's
warmer welcomes.
But she tells the truth,
I do not think Philippe
has ever married,
and frankly, I do not
know who would marry him.
Sam:
You haven't met Brigid.
Sadly,
I have met many Brigids.
She paid me
a lot of money
to make sure the kid
was handed over to her father.
She wasn't one to
part with money,
much less a lot of it.
So do you know where this
Philippe Saint-Andre is?
Who knows?
Philippe is a vagabond.
Sometimes he's here,
sometimes he's there.
So why the will
instructed you
to bring the girl
here is a mystery.
All I know is I was
sent a plane ticket,
first-class Pan Am to Istanbul,
to pick up the kid,
and two more tickets,
coach this time, to Marseilles.
And then so instructed,
you come all the way
to our little village,
just to knock on a door
and hand over the girl
to whoever answered.
I was told her father
would answer.
You did not wonder if the
child would even be welcome?
I was paid too much
to wonder.
This was strictly
a business matter
between you
and Miss O'Shaughnessy?
She didn't pick my name
out of a hat
if that's
what you're asking.
We knew each other.
I see.
When you say
"knew each other,"
you mean you knew
each other...well.
Well enough
so she trusted me.
You were lovers,
perhaps?
Oh, Jesus, you French.
-So yes?
-Briefly, didn't end well.
They never do.
Hearts break,
one moves on,
the other one becomes
lonely and bitter.
We didn't get that far.
-Why not?
-I put her in jail.
So, this
Brigid O'Shaughnessy,
she trusted you because
you put her in jail.
She trusted me because
I got her out of jail.
Got her out?
How?
I knew who to talk to.
A most useful skill.
And the reason you felt
so compelled to free her?
She was two years
into 20 when she got sick
and found out she was dying,
or so she thought.
Turned out
even her body could lie.
They paroled her and she
lived another four years
before she died
in that train derailment
outside Istanbul
a few months back.
Irony has always been
my favorite form of justice.
Not to mention
the time it saves you.
What was she doing,
may I ask, in Istanbul?
Antiquing.
After her release
from prison,
did you two pick up
were you left off?
It didn't last much
longer than the car ride
from the prison
to the motel.
Then she broke her parole
and lammed off to Europe.
You did not feel
as if no time had passed,
that despite all the
heartbreak and the bitterness,
you could still find
a small ember to reignite?
I have to say, Chief,
you've got a funny
kind of curiosity.
I am a police officer.
I am curious
about everything,
especially about men with guns
looking for trouble
or perhaps that bulge
in your coat
is a lollipop
for the little girl.
I'm looking for someone,
is all.
Then I have mistaken you
for the sort of man
who pays attention.
I couldn't tell you
what sort of man I am,
other than
I keep my promises,
particularly
when I'm paid to.
My advice...
take the child back
to the United States.
If Philippe Saint-Andre
is her father,
she's better off
an orphan.
All the same,
I need to find him.
And all the same,
I am suggesting, politely,
you look elsewhere.
[Vehicle hums]
[Footsteps echo]
[Car door closes]
[Speaks French]
Samuel Spade.
[Engine starts]
[Melancholy music playing]
♪
[Birds chirping,
insects buzzing]
What do you call her?
Has she got a name?
Betty Bertha.
Mama made her.
[Cow moos]
[Liquid gurgles]
[Convent bell tolls]
[Soft ethereal music playing]
♪
[Thunder rumbles]
Looks like rain.
Sounds like rain, too.
[Thunder crashes]
[Wind howling]
[Bike chain clatters]
You can finish that
in the car.
[Thunder crashes]
[Ominous music playing]
♪
[Melancholy music playing]
[Lightning and thunder crash]
[Lightning crackles]
[Tires screech, metal crunches]
[Engine sputters and stalls]
[Thunder and lightning crash]
[Door slams]
[Thunder crashing]
[Car hood slams]
[Thunder crashes]
[Door slams]
We're going nowhere
for a while.
Might as well
get some sleep.
[Lightning and thunder crash]
[Thunder crashes]
[Lightning crashes][Gasps]
[Melancholy music playing]
♪
[Engine purring]
[Brakes squeal]
[Speaking French]
Sorry,
I-I don't speak French.
-American?
-Since birth.
I don't suppose you know
how to fix one of these?
I was always under
the impression
one just
threw them away.
Well, hello there![Dog pants]
Shall I take you and your
daughter back to the village?
She's not my daughter,
and it'd be great
if you could take us
anywhere but the village.
I understand.
Please!
Charlemagne can get
in the back.
[Charlemagne yips]I wouldn't dare.
[Charlemagne whimpering]
First time
in a Rolls-Royce?
First time in one
that smells like roses.
I've been working
in the garden.
I never had the feel.
I find water
to be the key.
Now you tell me.
[Chuckles]
You speak
perfect English.
I had a good teacher.
Another talent I lack.
Teaching?
Learning.
You just have to be
taught by someone
you want to listen to.
I'm all ears.[Charlemagne pants]
[Bells tolling]
[Ethereal music playing]
♪
[Gentle music playing]
[Speaks French]
Madame Huchet.
[Speaking French]
What?
Let's talk
in my office.
[Door opens]
See this here?
You've got the early
stages of emphysema.
Meaning?
You have to quit smoking.
Forget what you read,
forget the TV commercials
with the sexy girls.
Cigarettes are bad
for you.
[Lighter clicks]
Am I dying?
No, but you're
killing yourself.
How much time
do I have?
Depends on you.
Stop now, you'll live
another 30 years.
Don't stop, you'll
live another 30 years,
but you'll be
in an oxygen tent.
Otherwise,
you're in great shape.
Emphysema.
Not pretty.
[Indistinct conversations]
[Soft music playing]
♪
[Dog barks]
[Chicken squawks]
[Children scream]
-Bonjour.
-Bonjour!
[Gravel crunches]
♪
[Children clamor]
[Teacher speaks indistinctly
in French]
[Gate bell ringing]
[Children squeal and clamor]
[Whistle blows]
[Speaking French]
[Chuckles]
[Lock and chain rattles]
[Children clamor]
[Speaks French]
Mr. Spade?
How good to see you,
maestro.
As always,
do sit down.
Cigarette?
You don't mind
if I have one?
Not if you promise to blow
the smoke in my direction.
[Laughs][Convent bell tolls]
Your bells are a bit behind,
I have 10:24.
For over 300 years,
we sisters
climbed the tower
and rang
the bells by hand.
Then a salesman
arrives last month
and convinces me to have
our bells automated.
The mechanism
was installed last Friday.
Since then, the bells now
ring whenever they choose.
Maybe we're better off
not knowing exactly
how much time we've got.
Only if you aren't herding
children day until night.
How are the children?
Oh, thank the Lord,
very healthy and happy,
though, some prefer
their solitude.
There's plenty to be
said for solitude.
God loves her
and keeps her safe.
For his efforts
and yours.
As always, we are very
grateful, Mr. Spade.
A long time ago,
someone said to me
that money and gratitude
don't always go hand in hand.
A cynical someone,
no doubt.
They were the only
"someones" I knew back then.
Speaking of the past,
her father is coming home
to Bazuel.
You don't say.
I assumed
that he was dead,
but the dead
don't write letters.
He has written several,
all confirmed
by his mother
to be in Philippe's
own hand.
You've spoken
with Madame Saint-Andre?
Audrey has become
very attentive
to her granddaughter.
Once a week,
she brings her clothing
she has sewn herself.
You didn't think this was
maybe something I should know?
I'm telling you now
so that you are aware
that he will be
here soon.
Audrey could have written
those letters herself.
To what purpose?
The girl's rich.
I assume
you mean spiritually.
This isn't exactly
the Hotel Georges V.
There's a trust fund
full of money
that can only be described
as ill-gotten.
Every dime goes to Teresa
when she turns 18,
which I'm sure
Philippe knew,
given his part in
separating said money
from its rightful owners.
Oh.
Philippe Saint-Andre
is a thief?
What a surprise.
He stole the money with
the help of Teresa's mother,
who apparently knew
Philippe well enough
to put the money in
Teresa's name and not his.
And you were involved
in this how, Mr. Spade?
Peripherally.
Philippe has always
denied paternity
and until evidently,
very recently,
his mother
has never acknowledged
her granddaughter's
existence.
But, now as Teresa
gets closer to 18,
he's writing letters and
she's knitting pullovers?
The war changed
a lot of people.
Very few for the better.
GrandmamanAudrey
is up to something.
I always hoped that,
with time,
Teresa would warm to you.
I sent her mother
to rot in prison
and her father
to die in Algeria.
It's gonna be
a long wait.
But she knows
that you care about her.
Keeping a promise isn't
the same thing as caring.
What I promised was
to bring the girl to Bazuel.
Yes, well,
as the good book says,
"He who promises
runs in debt."
Is that Old Testament
or New?
The Talmud.
Aren't we full
of our own surprises?
I do so enjoy our chats,
my dear Mr. Spade.
[Soft music playing]
♪
[Gravel crunching]
[Water trickling]
What are you doing?
I fixed the dishwasher.
[Speaking French]
I'm on a health kick.
So can I.
Sorry,
I don't understand.
Can you speak English?
Do me a favor
and start locking the doors.
Yeah, well, this trouble
needs no invitation.
You don't seem
all that worried.
[Mantel clock dings softly]
[Mantel clock ticks]
[Soft ethereal music playing]
[Paper rustles]
♪
[Lighter cap clicking]
[Clicking continues]
♪
[Child giggles]
[Dog barking, child laughs]
♪
Gabrielle: How would
you like to earn a fee
on top of what you're
already being paid?
Sam:
Doing what exactly?
What you're going
to do anyway,
talk to
Philippe Saint-Andre.
Just talk to him?
He's blackmailing me.
Over what?
You kill your husband?
Okay.
My husband was a Nazi.
He was German?
Worse, he was French.
Jacques was
a collaborateur.
And Philippe is threatening
to tell the authorities?
Not only them,
the newspapers,
the international press.
Why would they care?
I'm sure
a lot of partisans
killed a lot of Nazi
collaborators back then.
And their children.
That was 10 years ago.
What's different now?
Algeria.
Stopping Hitler was
something we could all agree
was worth
whatever the cost.
There is, however,
far less accord
about our recent
conflict.
And it certainly
doesn't help
when both sides are locked
in some sick competition,
committing one atrocity
after another.
I grew up thinking
that when my family went
on vacation to Laurent,
we were going to
another part of France.
And what do you
feel about it now?
It only matters what
people think I feel.
Just like
it doesn't matter
that Jacques
had to be punished
for betraying
the town of his birth,
for aiding in the suffering
of his old friends,
just so he could
sleep in his own bed,
keep making his wine,
or drive his
burgundy-colored car.
But now, after this war,
if you're French,
the only thing
that matters
is that we punished
him ourselves.
We?
Does that mean Philippe
is blackmailing
more than just you?
This is about me.
I don't want the people
of Bazuel involved, please.
I won't allow
the people here
to live through such misery
all over again,
which is
what will happen
if Philippe carries
through on his threats.
They're not afraid
of jail.
They're afraid of being
remembered as war criminals,
especially
by their children.
I'd like to help you,
but if I'm to get
my current fee,
I gotta sort out
what to do with her.
Man of conscience.
I understand.
Man of many debts,
more like.
To be honest with you,
the sooner
I get her parked,
I can move on.
I have a thought
on that,
which will take
a few days to work out.
Maybe I can pay you
to just think
about how I can deal
with this situation
without killing anyone.
Oh, there's plenty
of ways
of getting rid of a man
without killing him,
especially when
there's a war on.
Interesting.
Your local constable
made it pretty clear,
he wants me to pick
another place to be.
So stay with me.
In the carriage house.
[Ethereal music playing]
♪
[Water splashing]
[Gentle music playing]
[Coughs]
George: Hello.
My name's
George Fitzsimmons, sir.
What can I do for you,
Mr. Fitzsimmons?
Is Madame LaVarone home?
No, I'm afraid not.
Ah, any idea when
she might return?
When the sun goes cold.
I beg your pardon?
She's no longer
with us.
Oh.
I see.
I'm not selling.
Good,
and I'm not buying.
I could never afford
such a lovely property.
That makes two of us.
What did you want
with my wife?
Wife?
Oh, dear.
I am an idiot.
My condolences.
I'm -- I'm --
I'm so sorry.
I had no idea
she'd remarried.
Did you know her?
Yes, quite a while ago.
A young boy right
after the World War.
See, my father was
a landscape painter.
Syngin Fitzsimmons.
Well, Madame LaVarone allowed
him to paint on the estate.
The -- the ravine.
The vineyard and cows.
Oh, yeah. There's a painting
hanging in the library.
Yes, it's a gift of
gratitude from my father.
See, we lived in the carriage
house for three months.
Still remember
the day we departed.
I was desolate, sobbing.
I loved being here.
Well, to tell you
the truth,
I did have a bit of a heart
flutter for the madame.
Understandable.
I'm wondering Mr...
Spade.
Gabrielle Spade.
Think of that.
You were wondering what,
Mr. Fitzsimmons?
It's...
Well, I am now
an artist as well.
And you want
to paint here.
If my clumping around won't
be too much of a disturbance?
Not at all.
Come clump
whenever you want.
As long as you're quiet
and I never see you.
Good, consider me just
another cow in the pasture.
We sold the cows
right after the carriage
house burned to the ground.
[Slow music playing]
♪
You always did have
a thing for strays.
♪
[Man on radio speaking French]
Man on the moon.
What the hell for?
[Engine humming]
[Slow music playing]
♪
[Door opens]
[Footsteps approaching]
Morning.
Oh, Helena...
...could you ask Henri
to come see me?
[Insects buzzing]
How do, Mr. Spade?
George.
What's the matter,
Jean-Pierre?
You got lost
in the dark last night?
Maybe you forgot you were
gonna stay off my property.
Your property.
Oh, Jesus.
Have you been sitting
there since last night?
What are you talking about?
I wasn't here last night.
Then who was?
How would I know?
I wasn't here.
Philippe Saint-Andre.
Did you lend him
your bike?
Sometimes
he just takes it.
He's an old friend
after all.
Oh. With friends like that,
who needs friends?
Jean-Pierre.
There's some things you just
don't ever want to do.
[Scoffs]
We have all heard
the stories.
What a tough guy
you once were.
There's no such thing.
I wonder.
Are they true stories,
or just things you tell
a woman, like my wife?
Hey, wait,
I have a business proposition
for you, Spade.
Do not laugh at me.
Then don't be ridiculous.
I'm very serious.
Buy my half of the health club.
You mean
Marguerite's half?
You talk to her
about this?
She never has to know.
Funny thing about drunks,
they think they make sense.
You buy me out,
I disappear.
You get the whole club and my
wife completely to yourself.
What makes you think
that I want Marguerite,
or she wants me?
Think about it.
You tell your old
friend Philippe,
he wants to talk to me,
he can come and harangue me
to my face
like everyone else.
[Marguerite
singing in French]
Hello, Mr. Spade.
Mrs. Devereux.
Drink?
It's a little early,
don't you think?
Or a little late, depending
on one's point of view.
Last night I thought
I could hear the party
all the way
up at my place.
Did you now?
But maybe that was just
you and Jean-Pierre
throwing bottles
at each other.
Did he hit you?
Maybe I hit him first.
I can take care
of myself.
He came by this morning
on his motorcycle.
For once, let's not
talk about Jean-Pierre.
You should have
come in last night.
Full house,
standing ovations.
You sure
this is right?
Like I said,
we had a full house.
Your husband already thinks
I stole the joint.
Jean-Pierre thinks you
stole more than the club.
If he only knew.
But the club is not his.
The club is mine.
Ours.
Is this what
set him off?
Jean-Pierre
doesn't need much.
[Coughing]You feeling all right?
I'm fine.
Never better.
The other night,
I'm walking by the cemetery
and I see you inside.
Evening's a nice time
to do that.
Must be, as you are
there every night.
Oh, you go by the
cemetery that often?
I'm shopping for a plot.
Two years
have passed, Sam.
I stopped looking at
calendars and mirrors
a long time ago.
[Bells tolling]
[Indistinct conversations]
[Converse in French]
Patrice.
I'm watching my weight.
Watching it do what?
You might want to put
a pin on Mr. Jean-Pierre
and Madame
Marguerite Devereux.
They had another
battle royal last night.
I know, I talked to her.
Sometimes I wish
they'd just kill each other
and give the rest of us
some peace.
Jean-Pierre hasn't been right
since he was discharged.
The war has come home.
Sooner or later,
they always do.
This one, this Algerian
fiasco, is different.
But Jean-Pierre is a model
citizen compared to others.
I don't suppose
you've heard the good news.
We're getting
a bowling alley?
Philippe Saint-Andre has
apparently returned home.
Do I have to worry
about you and Philippe?
[Man speaks French]
[Coins jingling]
If you don't watch out,
Patrice,
you're gonna burn in hell.
I'm a goalist.
So to many,
I'm already there.
Answer my question.What's to worry about?
We've discussed two different
men who want you dead,
and my breakfast
hasn't yet arrived.
Yeah, but only one of
those men is a sociopath.
One is enough.
I told you back then
that your solution
was no solution.
Yeah, but you weren't
paying me.
Gabrielle was.
[Man on radio speaking French]
[Changing radio stations]
["Qu'il Fait Bon de Vivre Ici"
by Paul Bonneau, Pierre Duclos,
Eliane Blache playing]
[Motorcycle engine humming]
♪
[Tires screeching]
[Slow music playing]
♪
[Speaking French]
Ah.
Hello, Henri.
Military life
treating you all right?
Well, the training
is difficult
mentally, physically.
But what's hardest
is discipline.
I do not take
orders easily.
I know what you mean.
You were in the army,
Mr. Spade?
No, I was
a conscientious objector.
You don't believe in
killing your fellow man?
Oh, I think there's plenty
of men worth killing,
as well as plenty of wars
worth fighting.
I'd just
rather choose myself.
Like the bad penny
he is,
Philippe Saint-Andre
has snuck back into town.
How can I help?
You still spending time
with that little
redheaded number?
Uh...
which would that be?
Redheads are all
I spend my time with.
I'm talking about the
redhead you brought to dinner,
the one who works
as the General's secretary.
I need you to eyeball
Philippe's service file,
his activities in Algeria
and everything since.
I don't want you
or the redhead
to get in to any trouble
over this.
Your grandmother
would kill me.
Well, she always said that
Saint-Andre was a bully,
that he likes
to hurt people.
His special gift.
And that he was
blackmailing your wife
before she was
your wife.
Gabrielle had some difficulties
with Philippe, yes.
So you sent him away?
Well, I convinced him
he might live longer
by going off to war.
I'll see
what I can find.
[Utensils clinking]
[Telephone ringing]
Philippe: Stay away
from Teresa.
Well, if it isn't
father of the year.
I mean
what I say, Spade.
She doesn't want you
going near her.
I hear your mother's
taken up knitting.
If only you knew half as much
as you thought.
I'd invite you over here
for a drink to explain it all,
but I'm guessing you're up
to your neck in shit.
Mind your
own fucking business.
[Faint groaning]
[Gun firing]
Philippe?
Patrice:
I told you yesterday
that Philippe
had returned.
I asked you
if I had to worry.
And now
I'm telling you, yes.
No, you are telling me
that you received a phone call
from Philippe Saint-Andre,
which is I admit,
concerning,
but not overly so.
And then you say
that during this call,
you heard a gunshot,
fired by whom?
Fired at him?
I am saying that
Philippe was in a room
where a gun was fired,
either by him or at him.
And I would assume
that you,
legendary bloodhound
that you are,
would've already
leapt out of your chair
and be sniffing the
countryside in search of him.
Your cheap canine
comparison aside,
I do consider myself
expert on all things
Philippe Saint-Andre.
And I am telling you that
the man will not be found
unless he wants
to be found.
So what you're an expert at
is waiting.
Oh, so now you insult
my professionalism?
Maybe just your courage.
My courage has
never been in doubt.
I've got the wounds
to prove that.
Unlike some of us.
And now you insult
my war record?
One has to have
first fought in a war
to have a war record.
I thought we promised to
only have this conversation
when we're drunk.
I'm hungover.
Does that count?
Tell me, Patrice,
how would you feel if
Philippe hurt someone?
Depends on the someone.
Okay, I will put my
best man on the search.
Your best man? Does that mean
your idiot brother?
Is nothing good enough?
Maurice is
an excellent detective.
Maurice couldn't find water
if he fell out of a boat.
Don't make me say it.
What? That we've been through
so much together?
That you owe me.
You got that backwards,
haven't you?
You live here
at my pleasure.
[Glass shatters]
Maurice.
[Snaps fingers]
[Sam coughing]
No?
[Crickets chirping]
[Slow music playing]
[Coughing]
♪
[Indistinct conversations]
Gabrielle: Sam,
Philippe Saint-Andre.
That him?
Not tonight.
♪
[Coughing]
I guess
I missed the show.
That better be the '52.
Sometimes
Patrice is right.
I mean, there's a lot
of rocks to look under
between here and Algiers.
And you are not
a little bit curious
why Philippe
has come back?
Nope.
Or why he called you in
the middle of a gunfight?
It was more like the
beginning of a gunfight.
Even given what he tried
to do to Gabrielle.
This is still
not your business?
Au contraire.
Hearing that
gunshot reminded me
I'm allergic to other
people's business.
Since when?
Since moving
to beautiful Bazuel.
But before you came,
your talent was other
people's business, yes?
"Talent."
That's rich.
Paid metal as Miles
used to call it.
♪
People come to you
with their problems,
and you end up
inheriting those problems.
But you're good at fixing them,
so the problems keep coming,
along with the money.
In a very short while,
the problems go
from small to deadly.
Turns out you're
good at those, too.
Maybe too good.
One day you wake up,
you look in the mirror
and you see someone
you don't much like.
No big deal.
Just don't look in
the mirror anymore.
The money and the drink
are a nice distraction
until you finally rot from
the inside all the way out.
And no matter
how much you drink
or how much money
you make,
you can never get away
from your own stink.
That's very vivid.
But not the reason
why you are here.
People don't just come
to beautiful Bazuel.
You'd make a good detective,
better than me.
Please, I own a bar.
Co-own.
The first time I came
in this place,
you were the only one who
didn't look at me cross-eyed.
But I have
many times since.
What are you
doing here, Spade?
Making sweet love
to your wife.
Now I'm going.
You should be more afraid
of me.
You don't know
who the fuck I am,
which means
you don't know
what I've done
or what I can do.
You think I'm a fool?
I don't think
you're a fool.
I think you're like
one of those guys
late at night in the bar
who plays the same sad song
over and over again
on the jukebox.
[Both grunting]
[Grunting]
I remember the not-drunk
version of you.
It wasn't such a bad egg.
I mean, after all...
she married you.
[Coughing]
[Slow music playing]
♪
Teresa: [Panting]
Mr. Spade.
Teresa?
Help me.
[Panting]
♪
I ran the whole way.Tell me what happened
and start with whose blood
you're wearing.
My father's.
Philippe
came to see you?
Someone shot him.
Did you see who?
It was before.
Did he tell you
who shot him?
He said,
"Very bad men."
As in men
worse than him?
I know people
don't like my father,
but they don't know him.
Not the way I do.
Still, we're sitting here
because your father got shot
by, and I quote,
"some very bad men,"
which I can only assume was
over some very bad business.
And yet
despite the danger,
he somehow figures that
the best person to run to
is his 14-year-old
daughter.
I'm 15.
[Speaks French]
So I'm told.
Where is he now?
Teresa,
where is Philippe?
-Can I have another?
-No.
So he knocks on the door
with a bullet in him,
gives you a hug,
and then what, just leaves?
Yes.And during that brief stay,
he did what?
Said what?
Stop thinking about what lie
he wants you to tell
and tell me what
actually happened.
The people who shot him,
they followed him
to the convent?
I don't know
who shot Papa.
Maybe the monk.
He came right after
Papa left.
He started banging on
the gate with a stick.
He wanted to see
the Mother Superior.
This monk,
what did he look like?
Ugly face with a --
with a raspy voice.
Big nose, brown eyes?
One of those floppy hoods?
-You know him?
-I've seen him.
What did he want
with the Mother Superior?
I don't know.
He barged in and he
started shouting at her.
She told him to get out,
but he took the Lord's
name in vain and then,
and then he hit her.
Is she all right?
I don't know.
Everything was
so confused after that.
Everyone hid.
Not everyone.
You came here, why?
'Cause I'm the oldest
and the fastest.
Yeah, but why come here
and not the Gendarmerie?
He frightens me.
You stay here.
Don't move.
[Dialing]
[Ringing]
Sorry to wake you.
There's a problem.
Helena will be here
in a minute.
I'm gonna go check
things out.
If trouble comes,
read the book.
[Door closes]
[Slow music playing]
♪
Woman: [Whimpering]
[Knock on door]
[Woman speaking French]
I'm not gonna hurt you.
Shh. Shh. Shh.
Okay.
[All yell]
Shh. Shh. Shh.
Shh.
[Girls whimpering]
[Suspenseful music playing]
♪
[Eerie music plays]
[Eerie music builds]
♪
[Suspenseful music plays]
[Convent bells tolling]
♪
[Bells tolling]
[Closing theme music playing]
♪
-Terribly sad.
Man: do you still
possess a working pistol?
♪
Spade: Anyone who wants
to shoot me
will have to bring
their own gun.
Get down!
Could Jean-Pierre
have done this?
Philippe could have
taken the shot.
Man: You have many enemies.
I'd like you
to meet my mother.
You either saw something
you shouldn't have seen,
or you know something
you shouldn't know.
Philippe shows up
with a kid.
The boy is the hub
of a many-spoked wheel.
That sounds like something
you read in a fortune cookie.
We all pretend,
Mr. Spade.
If I want you dead,
I just have to wait.
Mr. Spade, do you have any
specific information
you want to share?Spade: They want the boy.
Everyone from the Vatican
to French intelligence
to the CIA
is after this kid.
Woman: Mr. Spade,
you want to be left alone.
And yet, sadly,
our pasts are portable.
[Gunshot]